% E and ID proteins regulate cell chirality and left-right asymmetric development in Drosophila
% Tomoki Ishibashi; Ryo Hatori; Reo Maeda; Mitsutoshi Nakamura; Tomohiro Taguchi; Yoko Matsuyama; Kenji Matsuno
%

---
title: E and ID proteins regulate cell chirality and left-right asymmetric development in Drosophila
author:
- name: Tomoki Ishibashi
  affiliation: Department of Biological Sciences, Osaka University, 1-1 Machikaneyama-cho, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-0043, Japan
- name: Ryo Hatori
  affiliation: Department of Biological Sciences, Osaka University, 1-1 Machikaneyama-cho, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-0043, Japan
- name: Reo Maeda
  affiliation: Department of Biological Science and Technology, Tokyo University of Science, Noda, Chiba, Japan
- name: Mitsutoshi Nakamura
  affiliation: Department of Biological Sciences, Osaka University, 1-1 Machikaneyama-cho, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-0043, Japan
- name: Tomohiro Taguchi
  affiliation: Department of Biological Science and Technology, Tokyo University of Science, Noda, Chiba, Japan
- name: Yoko Matsuyama
  affiliation: Department of Biological Sciences, Osaka University, 1-1 Machikaneyama-cho, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-0043, Japan
- name: Kenji Matsuno
  affiliation: Department of Biological Sciences, Osaka University, 1-1 Machikaneyama-cho, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-0043, Japan
keywords: [E protein, Id protein, Left-right asymmetry, Myosin ID, Cell chirality]
abstract: |
    How left-right (LR) asymmetry forms in the animal body is a fundamental problem in Developmental Biology.
    While the mechanisms for LR asymmetry are well studied in some species, they are still poorly understood in invertebrates.
    We previously showed that the intrinsic LR asymmetry of cells (designated as cell chirality) drives LR asymmetric development in the Drosophila embryonic hindgut, although the machinery of the cell chirality formation remains elusive.
    Here, we found that the Drosophila homolog of the Id gene, extra macrochaetae (emc), is required for the normal LR asymmetric morphogenesis of this organ.
    Id proteins, including Emc, are known to interact with and inhibit E-box-binding proteins (E proteins), such as Drosophila Daughterless (Da).
    We found that the suppression of da by wild-type emc was essential for cell chirality formation and for normal LR asymmetric development of the embryonic hindgut.
    MyosinID (MyoID), which encodes the Drosophila Myosin ID protein, is known to regulate cell chirality.
    We further showed that Emc-Da regulates cell chirality formation, in which Emc functions upstream of or parallel to MyoID.
    Abnormal Id-E protein regulation is involved in various human diseases.
    Our results suggest that defects in cell shape may contribute to the pathogenesis of such diseases.
titlepage: true
toc-own-page: true
...

